and welcome back to a fresh episode of
business growth show I'm your host Sam
Dunning co-owner over at webchoiceuk.com
and if you haven't yet check out my
weekly emails where I share actual B2B
marketing website and SEO tips giveaways
goodies free resources and more why not
give it a trial over at businessgrowth
dot emails today I am joined by Andre
fagi Andrews the director of marketing
over at Panda doc
Andre welcome to the show hello Sam
thank you uh thank you for having me I'm
doing very well no worries man looking
forward to digging in to customer
interview so we're gonna be chatting
today why you should run customer
interviews and from a B2B perspective
how they're actually going to help you
unlock insights stories and more to move
the needle in a B2B perspective to drive
Pipeline and revenue so as we always do
on the show let's dive straight into it
um why should we be running B2B customer
interviews Andre
well I would think that it would be a
well understood Universal practice that
is a marketer we want to be very close
to the people that we're trying to serve
right or customer base and I remember a
couple of years ago coming across this
stat from profitwell
that showed that in B2B marketing 80
percent of marketers never talk to their
customers which I found appalling
um I I didn't understand that you can
actually be in this job and not really
talk to the people that you're serving
right so we have this abundance of data
everywhere in our CRM we have
firmographic data we have demographic
data we have psychographic data on our
buyers but if we're not talking to them
if we're not actively engaged in having
meaningful conversations
um with the very people that fuel our
business I think it's a huge Miss so
since then I just kind of went on this
path of trying to unpack
why marketers don't talk to their
customers more often in B2B what are the
low hanging fruit opportunities from
from having those types of conversations
and you know really learning from people
outside of the B2B space who speak with
individuals whether it's b2c marketers
whether it's journalists or great
interviews interviewers throughout
history who are just really good at
having
strong conversations that uncover
incredible insights I want to take those
findings and then bring them into my
craft as a marketer in the B2B space hmm
yeah and why do you think some marketers
or perhaps with smaller businesses it
might be Founders
um aren't running customer interviews do
you think it's because things like
perhaps they're they don't realize that
how beneficial they are or is it perhaps
because they're maybe under pressure
from their Founders or management to
kind of get get products get offerings
shipped out quickly or is it is it to
really something else that you've seen
well I think in the very beginning of
any business you know which is typically
a Founder with an idea there are
meaningful conversations that are
happening with with potential customers
right that's where the early stages of
trying to identify product Market fit
come into place I think it's really as
businesses scale they just kind of
assume that they already know everything
that they need to know and then they
over index on data that's basically
collected
um you know so again CRM data like that
just validates
a preconceived notion based on earlier
research rather than you know really
trying to go a layer deeper and
understanding that okay maybe I have a
good Baseline set of information here
now my job to build a great product and
to have a great service and Powerful
marketing is to really go many many many
layers deeper in understanding not just
the solution but you know the conditions
around the problem that the customer is
experiencing day in Day Out
and would you say if you're not running
customer interviews you're guessing as
to things like you mentioned there the
problems you solve perhaps the benefits
you bring to the table the value
proposition of your offer and various
other things
I would say that you're you're maybe a
degree of guessing you're you're you're
operating on preconceived notions right
and you're not really then challenging
yourself or your team
um to go deeper and really understand
like were these preconceived notions the
right ones you know and again as
businesses scale and I'm not just
talking about the product element of the
business I'm also talking about the
operational element of the business you
know you bring more people into your
team that adds more layers of complexity
and how does that actually impact the
experience the customer is receiving
then because it's one thing when it's
just one to one but now the customer
might be interacting with three five
upwards of seven people with an
organization
um yeah yeah yeah yeah
um if it's okay with you Andre I think
it'd be quite fun to perhaps do a
scenario or a bit of a role play so we
could even do what you folks did at
Panda doc
um whereby we start from the bottom up
um and we imagine that we haven't done
any customer interviews yet
um so I want to get into the
nitty-gritty a little bit which
hopefully provides some actual insights
tips and ideas to everyone watching or
listening in
um in terms of a few ideas a few plays
around conducting customer interviews
um so let's imagine perhaps we're an
early stage company and perhaps we're
running would or we've decided that we
need to run customer interviews to
perhaps fuel our marketing we realize
that if we're not building out um our
product our offer our marketing
materials etc for idle clients then we
know it's not going to resonate and hit
home what are some of the first things
that we need to do before we actually
run the in interviews I am talking about
things like perhaps lineup x amount of
customers perhaps get this into play
like what is the what is the step a
before we do any actual practical things
well step a is really kind of figuring
out who should we be talking to in the
first place right so um I think a really
easy and actionable first step is try to
understand what segment of your customer
base
um is really really happy with the
product or service right so start with
essentially your most happy customers to
understand why are they happy why have
they been our customers or clients for
over a year why did they renew their
license right why do I find that they're
actually you know kind of adopting
features more quickly than than others
um in Japanese there's this word called
okatsu which is essentially used to kind
of describe like super fans like uh it's
almost like hyper Geeks but not like in
a negative way it's like whether it's
like coffee connoisseurs or you know
record diggers you know these are people
who are just like
um just fascinated and immersed and in a
specific thing right try to find those
within your customer base and I'm sure
everybody kind of has some of those
types of customers that just happen to
respond to every email that comes in or
again when you want to beta test a new
feature they're the ones to to quickly
adopt it
um so I would start by identifying maybe
10 minimum of 10 upwards of 20 customers
who fit that profile now don't worry too
much about the demographics at this
point or the firmware Graphics because
again
you're looking at it from a different
lens the lens that I think many of us
probably have heard before which is the
jobs to be done framework and and for
people who don't know what jobs be done
really means is it's um it's a research
framework that essentially says that all
people hire products for a very specific
job right so what is that job that the
customer is trying to get done right
we're not necessarily buying a hammer
just to hit a nail into a board right
we're trying to build a bed or we're
we're fixing something in our home right
try to understand the core job to be
done so that's why I don't I mean
obviously if you have some patterns
within firmographic data it's
interesting to look at that but when it
comes to having those initial customer
research conversations start by
identifying the power users gotcha
gotcha and if you're a super early stage
perhaps you've got less than 10
customers or happy clients or maybe
you've got zero is this something you've
in your opinion you should wait until
you've got that kind of sample size or
should you perhaps reach out to network
or prospects or what would you recommend
in that situation if that was the case
that's interesting right because I mean
if you have zero customers you probably
don't have a business just yet right you
have an idea
um so I mean I think the early stage
that's super super early stage you know
it's probably a little bit of a
different mindset but it still is more
of a hypothesis at this point which is
like I think that
this is a problem that needs to be
solved based on my own experience and I
think the early validation there is can
I find three people who would be willing
to pay for that problem to be solved for
them right so it still is a similar
mindset around trying to uncover the job
to be done but at the same time you're
still very very early stage you haven't
even
started really yet right so you want to
just validate whether the idea is
there's something really there or if
it's worth revisiting we're approaching
from a different angle yeah yeah that
makes sense okay so let's let's pretend
we've got anywhere between 10 to 20
power users happy customers
um ready to to interview like what's
what's the next step because I know
having those customers that are happy
and then actually getting them to agree
to run interviews is sometimes a bit of
a different kettle of fish it's not
always the easiest thing to get people
onto Zoom calls or video sessions or
whatever that might be
um so what would be one of the next
stages Andre
so I think it's actually a little bit of
a Mis misconception that customers
especially if they're happy customers
um you know are not willing to to talk
to us um there was a survey done by
Salesforce a couple of years ago that
showed that many customers are actually
incredibly excited I think like 67 of
customers they found were incredibly
excited and willing to actually engage
in a conversation with a vendor give
feedback if they felt like there was
something of value that they were going
to receive out of it so I think the
first Insight when you try to craft a
customer interview is like what can what
can the customer get out of this
conversation it's not just about me
extracting value it's about them
receiving value as well yeah so you know
some companies kind of go down the path
of some type of monetary reward whether
it's a gift card or some type of
incentive to have like you know
um you know we're going to waive fees
for the next month month as a result as
our sign of appreciation or we'll put
you first in line to receive access to
this new thing that we're building right
again these are your super users so
think about what might be an incentive
for them and others you know I mean
we've I've definitely reached out to
customers where I made it very well
known that we think that you have an
incredible story
based on how long you know you've been a
customer of ours and we have a platform
with X number of subscribers x amount of
reach and we'd love to put you on our
platform and share your story with our
audience because we think they can learn
from it so we go more at Panda dog from
a Content play where we talk where we
leverage our distribution and our reach
as a as a platform to put a spotlight on
their stories and their businesses right
so that's the first side of it
um is just matching the incentive
um and understanding their motivation
then when it comes to actually crafting
the conversation this is really more
about mindset
um because I wish I could tell you there
was like a silver bullet question that
like you just ask and you're gonna get
an amazing answer every single time
that's hardly ever the case right
um so what you really need is an
appropriate amount of time to have a
meaningful conversation with this
customer I typically recommend you know
aim for about an hour even if the
conversation only lands uh 45 minutes
that's okay but when you have an hour uh
you have enough time to explore
um you know different areas of their job
their industry the type of challenges
that they experience and you don't have
to rush through it then right
um we've probably all heard from product
marketing the five wise like when
somebody gives you a response ask why
then ask why again and ask why again you
want to give yourself space and the
customer space to go deeper into things
so I might have a list of questions that
I've crafted maybe 25 questions but the
goal is not necessarily to get through
all 25 questions right the goal is to
extract as much value maybe from three
or five of those questions and have
something that's really insightful
whether I could use it for a piece of
content marketing whether it's something
that I could use for better messaging
and positioning or something that I can
pass back to the product team for
potential product innovation
yeah so in terms of some good points so
in terms of the actual interview itself
and this is I appreciate this is
contextual and it's going to vary
depending on the organization but you
mentioned a couple there what should be
your main what should be the main
outcomes that you seek as a result of
this custom interview I are we going in
with the mindset that we can then pull
this and edit and chop up the video
clips for like customer success stories
and then use those as testimonials maybe
ads and all that good stuff put it on
our website as a case study and more
I'll be using from a mindset we want to
improve our product or our service and
pull insights in that sense are we doing
it for more customer success because we
want to know how we can serve clients
better or is it all three is it
something else what have you found it's
been the best use cases
so as a marketer where I have found the
best use cases are really
um for maybe because it's my area of
marketing engagement marketing so
content brand top and middle of funnel
as well as you know even to an external
extent some of the direct response stuff
I mean I think it's the messaging right
um I take the guesswork out of what is
the voice of the customer by asking the
best questions I can possibly ask in the
context of that person's story so I can
only conceive so much in my mind as a
marketer from a creative perspective but
oftentimes when I sit down with a
customer I'll hear things framed in a
way that I never imagined right and then
rather than trying to engineer that I
can just go ahead and leverage it right
because coming from their words versus
my words it's 10 times more powerful in
the market people know that you know
every ad that they see from a brand it's
gonna be a group of marketers behind it
right so there's a little bit of that
smoke screen objective lens but when
they hear people that can relate to
their challenges that can that actually
speak in the language that they speak in
within their industry or their job it's
ten times more believable then right so
it's about trying to extract that value
in the most authentic way possible and
again that requires me as a person who's
conducting the interview to actually
remove my own biases and agenda you know
I have to remove all of that because
they're the ones that technically should
be in the spotlight so two clear points
for me are number one
my focus and my objective in that
conversation is to extract as much as
possible the conditions around the root
problem right and what I mean by the
conditions around the problem it's it's
not just the obvious thing around okay I
bought this piece of software because it
solves for X in my in my day-to-day job
I want to kind of understand
and maybe even agitate that problem how
big of a problem is it what are the
repercussions of this problem what are
the social and emotional detriments that
come from experiencing this problem does
it prohibit you from growing your career
does it make your case to your boss that
much harder for a promotion does it lead
to a consistently poor customer
experience for your customers that's
what I want to understand that's the
conditions around the problem and then
the other thing that I'm looking for
in a story is you know how can we walk
away from this where the customer is 10
times more interesting than the product
and that's again where I think a lot of
B2B marketing especially in case studies
and customer stories fails is
it puts the product as the hero of the
story right like you know the product is
the knight in shining armor that came in
and solved all these problems for the
customer but when the customer is a hear
of the story and you can understand the
context of what they had to overcome
both internally and externally within
the organization to accomplish something
right
um now your product is a tool one of
many that enabled them to become that
hero so making the customer really the
centerpiece and the hero of the story is
another objective that I seek to get
from these types of conversations nice
so all right two main up two main kind
of Frameworks or outcomes we're going
for conditions around re problem and
making the customer more interesting
than your product service or offer which
I want to get into a bit more in terms
of
problems
um are we asking typical things Andre
around kind of what was the main
frustration or issue or problem you
faced
um that motivated you to initially I
don't know reach out to sales or whether
it's an outbound deal perhaps respond to
our outbound call or outbound message
and then digging in and agitating kind
of diving in there or do you like to
take a slightly different approach
so that certainly is
um you know an approach that I've taken
in the past and then tried to go deeper
but um I typically like to start far
before in a conversation at least I try
to start before the Catalyst event that
tipped that customer customer over into
searching for a solution and then
inevitably becoming our customer right
yeah um so we all know right the buyer's
journey and the buyer's journey is not a
linear story like a to B B to C C to D
it typically starts long before a
problem right like so understanding what
their motivations within getting into
that field were in the first place right
you get a lot of great insights into the
psychology behind
um their why their y Factor
um you can speak a little bit then more
about the industry at large because I
think we as marketers sometimes fail not
in sales I see more sales people I think
taking a a more keen approach and try
trying to understand the industry of
their customers but as marketers we
really need to understand the industry
if we're selling to finance people to
accountants as an example we need to
understand their industry we need to
kind of understand what normal what good
and what bath looks like in their
day-to-day right what are some of the
macro themes and events that are
impacting their work you know are they
worried about AI or automation impacting
their industry the way we're hearing a
lot of talk about marketers being
worried about what's impacting our
industry right so having even when
they're unaware of a problem trying to
spend at least a few minutes of the of
the interview trying to just get that
Baseline contextual understanding right
and then of course
along that path at some point in time
they're going to talk about how their
responsibilities increased their role
changed as a result they had new
responsibilities that then LED them down
a path of uncovering a new set of
problems that they needed to identify a
solution for so the conversation still
does move in the in the context of a
buyer's Journey but if you start right
at the like so tell me what happened
that made you want to buy my product
you're missing so much amazing context
about the backstory that led them to
that point in time yeah yeah yeah and is
there like a limit you you need to dig
into these kind of things as to I guess
not to piss the Prosper or the customer
off too much without constantly asking
kind of what made you decide to do this
or what was going on when this happened
or why why did it get so annoying that
you finally decided to reach out to us
and this kind of thing or is there like
a gut fill moment where you feel you've
got enough insights on this particular
topic that you think yep we've got all
the golden nuggets there let's move on
to the next section of this interview
yeah this this goes back into I think
more of the art than the science I mean
I think some people are really good at
picking up on cues you know this morning
I wrote about
um a very famous interview
um that I've learned a lot from uh an
NPR interview from David green uh his
Morning Edition show where he
interviewed Chrissy hind
um the lead singer of The Pretenders and
what was so famous about this interview
is just how bad it was and it's not to
say that like I mean David Green is an
incredible journalist with a very
respectable career
he had a bad day obviously because there
was a lot of things that he wanted to
talk about in that conversation that
we're not aligned with what Chrissy hind
wanted to talk about and she was in the
beginning if you listen to the interview
um even though it's been dramatically
edited because I think there was so many
uh cuss words they had to take out of it
but um if you listen to that interview
in the beginning she's saying you know
more subtly I don't really want to talk
about that can we change the subject but
he was not picking up on those cues
right so he kept pushing and pushing and
pushing her to talk about
things in her book that she didn't see
the point in disgusting she said I wrote
about this for a reason so people could
read it I'm coming to this interview
prepared to talk about other things
right so I think just understanding
picking up on
um
people's cues right just being a little
trying to dial up your emotional
intelligence in your mindset when you
get into these conversations because if
it starts feeling like an interrogation
question after question after question
after a question you're going to really
turn people off keep it conversational
you know the first 10 15 minutes of the
interview should probably be very
personable I think you know in general
um you know my friends my family in
Europe is really good at this culturally
and naturally right so you you have a
business lunch in the first 45 minutes
are just talking about life and family
and kids and values and you know where
you traveled and all these things in the
last 15 minutes is brass tax you get
into the nitty-gritty right I think
there's something we can learn from that
that type of ethos when we're engaged in
a in a in a interview with our customers
that there's another human being on the
other side of this conversation right
and they might have woke up and had a
bad day they might have something going
on in their that is incredibly stressful
so just being emotionally intelligent
and sensitive to that yes you still want
to extract value but also keep that in
mind in the conversation yeah yeah it
makes sense let's move on to the second
half
and making the customer more interesting
than the offer can you share a bit more
about how that works and how we should
take an approach to that aspect of the
interview
yeah so
um like we said earlier right like a lot
of a lot of customer stories are
um you know Sam had this problem Sam
found Panda doc Sam no longer has this
problem anymore Panda Doc is awesome
right that's that's just a general
script that we find in like 95 of
customer stories out there
and I think what would be more
interesting is to kind of understand
what else is going on in Sam's life like
for you to start this podcast for you to
start your business at some point in
time you had to take a bet on yourself
you had to take some type of risk you
might have come from a place where
um you know you had something really
stable and you wanted to break free and
do your own thing right and there was
conditions around that motivation
whether it was you were inspired by
other people in the space you found that
there was a lack of certain type of
content within this industry and you
felt uniquely motivated maybe qualified
or maybe not even qualified but
definitely motivated to take definitely
not the latter
and that to me is the beginning of a
really interesting story did you have
other people in your life whether it's
personally or professionally that helped
cheer you on or did you have people in
your life that maybe told you you know
what Sam I think you're a great guy but
uh I don't think you should do this you
should stick with your gay job that's
the real story here so now it's not just
Sam is using panda dog Panda Doc's
awesome Sam can streamline his entire
proposal and contract workflow with
panda Doc it's you've now built
um a really impressive audience you've
built a personal brand you've built a
business and you've overcome incredible
things along the way now one of the
tools that you happen to use is Panda
doc right so that's really cool because
the product is associated now with a
hero and I think all marketers should
think about how can I associate my
product with a hero and there's a lot of
Heroes out there you know what's that
expression not all heroes wear capes but
there's a lot Heroes out there who do
incredible things and they deserve to
have a microphone to share their stories
nice nice so no I mean those are given
some some great examples of questions
and we can kind of take a lot of ideas
like you say each each one's going to be
a bit different so I'm guessing it's one
of those things probably Andre that when
you do the first couple it's pretty
nerve-wracking you've probably got a
list of questions that you're proposing
and it might go a bit off tangent and
I'm guessing the more and more you run
these things the more you warm into it a
little bit like running a podcast
interview and more and more comfortable
you get and the more you kind of pick up
on body language different cues when to
dive deeper when not what questions to
ask how to dig for pain how to make it
into more of a conversation than
interrogation and kind of weaving things
into a story
yeah yeah absolutely and just for the
record I mean I have botched so many
interviews and and I still walk away
from certain conversations where I felt
like
this wasn't what I hoped for it to be
and I could even sometimes feel when the
person I interviewed felt that way too
so I don't want to make it seem like
um you know anybody has like this
superpower where every interview I mean
hey if if David Green can watch an
interview who am I right of course I
will right so I think it's again it's
more about the mindset and and
I genuinely think that it's helpful to
try to approach these interviews from
the perspective of a journalist to
understand that there's two sides or
more to every story
um there's so many conditions and
variables that impact human beings and
lead them down a certain path and they
become a whole lot more interesting when
you understand those nuances so it's
okay to walk away from certain
conversations and feel like
um you know there's that probably wasn't
the very best interview you've ever had
um as long as you can walk away still
learning something for the next one it's
a valuable use of your at least your
time in that in that in that instance
but yeah over time you know the more of
these you have and this is why
I actually talked about this last week
with somebody it's like you know try to
Cluster these interviews don't just like
sprinkle them like one here and then in
three weeks another one there try to
Cluster if you can only start with three
start with three right but try to
Cluster them so you stay in the same
mindset so you know if you cluster them
in a day or two now you have a mental
framework and pattern recognition that
you can identify and you can learn from
the previous conversation to get into
the next one right if you leave too much
time in between you might miss some of
those subtle insights that could have
been really helpful to take on in a
conversation
um because again you know due to the
amount of time that went by you just
forgot about it so also record it right
if you can't from a scheduling
perspective cluster the interviews
record it and re-listen to that
conversation it's going to be really
awkward and painful you're probably
going to want to just mute yourself and
turn off the screen when you see
yourself talking but it's really helpful
to have that feedback loop because then
you can say how am I approaching this
individual am I making am I doing my
best to make them comfortable am I being
personable do I sound overly scripted so
you know I mean that's why all great
performers whether it's comedians
musicians
they're always reviewing you know their
own work
um and we're we're Our Own Worst critics
so we're going to kind of look at it
through that lens but it's going to help
us do better at the next at the next
opportunity yeah yeah yeah and can
definitely resonate with with some of
those points especially trying to batch
them or do do them fairly close together
so it's just saying before we hit record
I've just been in Greece for a couple
weeks and it feels like I haven't done a
podcast in about a year so it's it's
nice if you can like you say not only is
it does it make you more consistent you
learn from each one you improve your
your conversation or your interview
skills get comfortable in front of
camera in the microphone talking to
people so it's all it's all a win-win
um and you're steadily steadily make
that progress so yeah like all of that
in terms of
so let's say we've done our we've run
our interviews we've interviewed um our
10 to 20.
happy clients how are we now pulling
the information that we need the
insights the stories and perhaps more
so I guess there's a couple things to
this first and foremost after the
recordings like what are we looking to
to do now what is the next step now
we've actually got these stored in I
don't know Google drive somewhere yeah
so you have your you have your stories
you have your interviews you start
reviewing all of the qualitative
research right and what you're really
looking for especially if you're looking
to kind of inform
your messaging your positioning is a
pattern for desired outcomes around
certain pains right so you know if
you're if you're focused if your ICP is
um you know account Executives or sales
leaders and companies that have 500 to a
thousand employees what are the
consistent pains that you're hearing
from the people that you interviewed and
what are their desired outcomes right so
that really helps make your messaging
and positioning a lot more crisp and
detailed and again you're using the
voice of the customer there the other
thing is again because you've taken the
time from a Content perspective let's
say content marketing you've taken the
time to kind of understand their
industry the common themes and pains
from there you can also start crafting
really great top of the funnel content
right because these are the things that
are keeping CFOs up at night or VP of
sales up at night right so now it's not
just your own assumptions your hearing
it definitely from your own customer
base the types of things that they're
thinking about the type of Trends or
changes in their ever-evolving
Industries again that makes for great
top of funnel content not necessarily
from a thought leadership perspective
maybe just because I don't like the word
thought leadership but it's more about
like what is your point of view on the
industry right yeah what is your unique
stance right and again you can probably
hear from the voice of the customer
exactly you know what their approaches
are some of them might not even involve
using your product or your solution to
solving some of these problems that's
okay you still want to understand the
macro but then again the more you
understand what's happening contextually
in the industry tree and then what are
the Catalyst events that led them to
start searching for a product or
solution within your category then you
understand from a desired outcomes
perspective what are the key themes here
that I need to focus on in my middle of
funnel messaging right what are the
common objections what are the
considerations around pricing or buying
committee or onboarding that I hear as a
reoccurring theme within the
consideration set of my customers right
and then finally what was a thing that
led them over to being able to make that
purchase you know whether it was a
specific offer whether it was timing
whether it was consensus within a
particular stakeholder and that their
organization those are the things then
that from the middle of the funnel or to
the bottom of the funnel outside of of
course a great cus a great product and a
great customer experience are going to
be vital in helping craft really strong
offers really strong case studies
powerful customer stories right so
there's a lot you can uncover from these
conversations as a marketer again
eighty percent of marketers never talk
to their customers so you just by being
one even if you fumble your way through
that conversation you're already doing
something that the majority of your
peers and most likely competitors are
not doing within your category so I
think there's a lot then to be taken
from those conversations that could be
incredibly actionable to just again make
your messaging positioning content and
offers that much stronger
another another thing that I'll add and
this is probably for a whole other
conversation
um think about the customer experience
because
there's
so many Hoops that we make our customers
jump through when they're ready to buy
our product or solution right fill out
this form wait 48 hours to get on a
conversation with somebody that first
conversation they're just going to
qualify you you're like well I already
qualify myself and I'm raising my hand
saying I want to buy this product now
you got to talk to somebody else right
from these customer interviews you get a
lot of insights around the operational
organizational attitude that B2B
companies have towards their customers
specifically the ones who are hand
raisers and you'll probably walk away
feeling very disappointed that's a
perfectly normal feeling because you
realize like man we're really making you
jump through all those hoops right I
mean in a previous organization I
remember doing customer research and
talking to people who said yeah I had to
fill out three different forms before
somebody
contacted me that was that was a harsh
thing to hear it made me feel very
embarrassed right so I think a lot of
these insights outside of the marketing
lens could really help you as an
organization develop more empathy for
your customers and do better in all the
touch points that they experience again
from
you know sales to onboarding onboarding
to customer success
yeah yeah I mean the the advantage of
this it sounds almost endless because
not only can you take the insights from
what your customers are saying around
problems pain points they had impact of
pain what was the root cause what was
the Catalyst that made them decide to
take action
um and why did they choose you perhaps
they're comparing vendors like what was
the point of differential
differentiation Etc all of which you can
leverage in testimonial videos messaging
ad copy website headlines product page
details and more
but also
the points like you say you can actually
leverage to improve your own marketings
whether that is your website that you
mentioned there perhaps uh the customer
is really happy that they're using you
now but at the time of sign up they had
to fill out a demo form and like you say
get qualified by an SDR 48 Hours get
later get a demo from an AE then maybe
wait more more more time to get a more
detailed product run through and then
eventually was able to to sign up once
they knew pricing and specs and all that
good stuff get the team on board and
sign up to your office so actually I
guess understanding what is hamstringing
your company in terms of actually a flow
for onboarding clients or onboarding
kind of high intent prospects that are
ready to talk to sales and making that
process more easy for them and more
enjoyable
um
but I suppose there's so many more
elements to it as well that could then
impact things like the actual product or
offer itself and because they can give
you insights into what they feel is
working well and what's not so like I
said it's almost endless you might have
inside so you actually can collect from
these things because I suppose I suppose
you can actually interview customers
multiple times as well I suppose you
could do one like once they've been on
board with you for a few months then
perhaps they've been on board with you
for three years and you do it again
absolutely and as new customers come
into your user base you know you're
going to get
a fresh perspective right
um you know again I think the the
benefit to making customer experience of
value within your organization is it's a
it's an opportunity as you scale to
stress test your systems to stress test
your process you know I mean there's
things that when we did a secret shopper
um initiative here at Panda doc which is
essentially is what it sounds like we
literally had somebody walk through the
entire customer journey and purchase our
product right
um so what we learned were opportunities
to improve even how our systems were
talking to each other right like
sometimes you know how through data
collection you have a lead being you
know sort of routed in a certain place
their information being stored in your
CRM then you start having the
automations work into play but every
time they work not every time but when
they convert to becoming a paying
customer or what happens to those
marketing automations you know sometimes
the systems might not actually update so
they're still getting certain emails
that are not appropriate because they're
pre-sales emails while then also getting
customer emails we uncovered some of
those insights said wow there's so much
room for improvement here right so even
just in terms of like validating stress
testing as you scale you know are your
systems doing the things that they're
designed to do which is to be sending
relevant communication and information
to both buyers and customers alike
here's a tricky one when you're
Gathering these insights especially when
it comes to actually changing key
messaging points I homepage headline
um major ad headlines
and similar
how do you know when you've got enough
insights that this message messaging is
then gonna resonate I know you can never
say 100 but when you're pretty confident
pretty damn confident it's going to hit
home with prospects and they're going to
think yes that's my pain Point yes
that's where I want to get to yes that's
worthy of going on a landing page or a
home page or one of our key ads or one
of our key testimonial videos and so on
so
um
I'm going to give you two answers I'm
going to give you kind of like an
obvious low-hanging fruit answer and I'm
going to give you a little bit of like a
cheat code answer
um
and the cheat code's a little bit of a
plug but I don't think they'll mind me
plugging them so the obvious answer is
you know you've you've done let's just
say 10 interviews 15 interviews you you
now you've gathered the the research
that you need to
you know uh craft more compelling
messaging you know I think what a lot of
marketers will do is they'll find ways
to you know generate some ad copy with
that polished messaging and look for
like an uptick in conversions or
engagement depending on the stage of the
funnel right so that's that's one
obvious answer second obvious answer is
go back to the same people that you
interviewed and put put it in front of
them right and and get their feedback
say hey based on what I heard from you
this is how we're positioning the
problem does this resonate does this
make sense right now
where the shortcomings in that approach
um happen is
everybody has bias and especially if
they've already converted into paying
customers the chances are that they've
made up their mind already that like you
your solution your product is the right
fit for them so you can't really remove
that bias from them the next best thing
to do which goes into the cheat code
mode is put it in front of an audience
that matches your ICP but they're not
existing customers and what we use is a
tool called winter spelled
w-y-n-t-e-r.com it's a message testing
platform so we run whether it comes from
like landing pages or home pages we
actually select
a group of B2B uh you know individuals
that matches our ICP and we'll put our
messaging in front of them and we get
their uh a whole ton of amazing insights
from Clarity scores to Resonance to
areas of improvement so that gives us
the ability we actually log something in
the market to have with like a very high
degree of confidence some sub you know
this um this understanding that the
message we crafted is going to be
compelling to our target audience
I like it I like it I need to get peep
on this podcast he runs winter and yeah
I remember he used to do a series on
LinkedIn called do you even resonate
where he'd review like uh B2B SAS uh
home pages or just B2B company home
pages and landing pages and then just
tear them apart based on customer
feedback and ICP feedback so totally I
like that approach for sure because then
like you say going in with that bias of
customers that already are preaching to
the converted let's say you're going
into cold audiences that fit that Target
Market you're after but getting the cold
hard truth
exactly and that's what we need to keep
us honest
for sure for sure
um Andre anything else that we should
consider before we wrap things up when
running these that we perhaps haven't
yet gone into
again I think it comes down to more of a
mindset
um than anything else I know I know it's
right now very much on Trend as as
marketers to look for you know uh the
the Silver Bullet right the the 10
bulletproof questions that you're going
to be able to ask to get amazing
insights and like we talked about before
we even hit the record button if I said
something like that it would be
disingenuous because I don't have it you
know I have found that certain
approaches certain questions can lead to
incredible insights from certain people
I've interviewed while the same exact
questions when I tried them in a
different person didn't really go
anywhere right so I think you know just
having that type of
journalist mindset that you know I'm
here to uncover the truth and I'm I'm
kind of removing my own bias my my own
agenda as much as possible you know um
from this conversation because at the
end of the day like I said you know the
people that you're interviewing you'll
be surprised how many incredible stories
there really are
um that's the thing that at least for me
my conviction in marketing is is really
about
uncovering those incredible stories that
our customers have and it makes you then
feel like wow I'm actually part of
something bigger here because it's not
just a product it's a tool that's
enabling this person to do almost
Herculean things so you develop that
empathy whether it's like in my case
I've talked to you know customers who
work in assisted living and hospice you
know these are really emotionally
challenging Industries and environments
to not just from a bureaucratic
perspective but from an emotional
perspective right so when I hear these
types of stories and then I apply it to
the way they're using our product it
just makes us me feel like wow we're
actually in you know in our own small
ways doing something a little bit more
significant than selling a widget so
that's my takeaway from all that love it
Andre thanks very much really appreciate
you coming on the show sharing your
thoughts around all things customer
interviews and your insights ideas and
More Much appreciated sir so with that
please do tell us more about have one
tuning in can learn more about yourself
panda dog and anything you want to share
with the audience
absolutely
um look I just have a humble following
on on LinkedIn
um I
and truly just trying to share my point
of view on making marketing a little bit
more human so if you're interested in
following along as I try to figure this
stuff out and ask people way smarter
than me for insights you can follow me
on LinkedIn and I look forward to
connecting with you
nice one Andre and we'll put all those
links in the show notes to your LinkedIn
over at businessgrowth dot marketing and
I want to thank you once again for
coming on really enjoyed the chat thank
you very much Sam I appreciate the time
no worries man and as always if you
enjoyed today's episode a quick rating
or review on your podcast channel is
appreciated or if you're on YouTube or
subscribe goes a long way and with that
we'll catch you on the next one for more
no BS actionable B2B marketing tips to
grow your business grow your Revenue
we'll catch you soon